Oh, I could take a look at your YouTube
studio or I'm an open book. I don't give
a [__]
>> You made over $26.3 million through
YouTube AdSense. Yeah,
>> that is wild.
>> This is what 10,000 videos look like.
>> You have over 100 employees, 16 million
subscribers.
>> You've been making videos about tech for
almost 20 years.
>> A lot of your content is reviewing
[music] products from brands, but then
you also take sponsorships from brands.
How do you handle conflicts of interest?
>> We're not afraid to criticize the hand
that feeds us.
>> Where do you draw the line? Apple. Apple
daily hate me. Why does Apple hate you?
No single company in the tech space
could ever hold us hostage. Real talk,
our channel's been declining in
viewership. When you have a hundred
people on staff, you have to take any
kind of drop extremely seriously.
>> Do you regret not selling your channel
for $100 million?
>> Lionus, thank you for coming on the
show, man. I'm so excited to have you.
>> Oh, thank you. It's my pleasure.
>> Dude, I got to say I think there's so
many things that you do that YouTubers
who aren't in tech can learn from and I
want to dive into that. But I actually
analyzed your past 20 years of videos,
broke them down into different formats,
and I'm curious
>> how you stayed relevant for nearly two
decades.
>> Over the years, I've had a tendency to
get bored before the audience has had a
chance to get bored.
>> With that said, I mean, real talk,
right? like our channel's been declining
in viewership for probably the better
part of 18 months and we still haven't
gotten close. Even before that, we were
well off of our COVID sugar high. Um, so
I think the LT channel is tracking only
like 45 million views for the last
month. And to be clear, I'm not trying
to sound like kind of spoiled. I'm sure
a lot of channels would love to do 45
million views in a month, but when you
have a 100 people on staff, you have to
take any kind of drop extremely
seriously because there's real world
consequences for real people when
there's a viewership decline, right? Um
whereas our high our peak was, I think,
over 120 million views on LT. Yeah.
>> And so, you know, even right now, you
know, we're taking a long hard look at
the content. We're taking a long hard
look at the upload cadence. Uh we're
taking a long hard look at our
packaging, our titles and thumbnails.
And we're trying to figure out, okay, is
there a new meta that we can adapt to?
Is this it? Yeah.
>> You know, uh because I've talked
extensively about the curve, you know,
the the natural life cycle of the
YouTuber. Um is this it? Am I at the end
of the curve? Right? Like you have to
ask those questions because if you're
not willing to honestly ask, "Am I just
not that cool anymore?"
>> Then you have absolutely no chance of
diagnosing whatever malady is ailing
your channel.
>> What is the curve for people who don't
know? Like just elaborate on that for a
second.
>> Um so back when SocialBlade used to be
able to retain more than two years of
data. Yeah. You could go to any channel
on YouTube pretty much and you could see
from day zero what their growth looked
like and invariably
sometimes fast, sometimes slow, they
would reach an apex and then once they
started circling the drain, it was very
rare for a channel to not succumb to the
gravitational pull. And so I called that
that life cycle the curve because
>> any graph is technically a curve. And
what was the like life like how many
years would you say on average when
you're studying a lot of these other
YouTube channels would they have like at
their peak?
>> Never that prescriptive about oh oh at
the peak. Nobody stays at the peak for
long.
>> Yeah.
>> Like I can pull up my own channel and
I'm sure you'll be able to see very
clearly you know what my curve looks
like at least if I don't manage to pull
out of it here.
>> So here's lifetime.
>> Oh I could take a look at your YouTube
studio.
>> I don't care.
>> Okay. Wow.
>> Yeah. We're I'm an open book. I don't
give a [__]
>> Wow. Okay. So this is your lifetime
views. Yeah, that's
>> Can I read this off?
>> You can do whatever you want.
>> Nine billion views and you could see
that it's gone up like kind of started
to hit a high during co but actually you
have a huge peak recently.
>> That's interesting to see like you hit
8.4 million views in a day.
>> Uh that was a super viral short which I
Yeah, let's get shorts out of there.
>> Yeah. So maybe filter out shorts so we
can see like long form.
>> Hold on. Oh no, I don't have a way of
doing it in this view unfortunately.
>> Can I see Can I see what revenue looked
like during that time? There. There you
go.
>> So, you made over $26.3
million.
>> I haven't,
>> but Linus Tech Tips as a channel.
>> Lionus Media Group, Inc. has done $26
million in revenue through YouTube
AdSense. Yeah.
>> Wow. That is wild.
>> I mean, we have a lot of expenses.
>> I know. I I want and I want to get into
a lot of overhead, a lot of employers
media group has paid more than $26
million in salaries in time that it's of
course.
>> Can I can I read off some of the highest
like earning videos?
>> Sure. Yeah.
>> I love building computers earned
$139,000.
So that was during kind of a an infinite
money glitch period on the platform
where super super long form live stream
VODs were treated algorithmically very
differently from regular VODs that were
uploaded. And because premium
>> pays out based on watch time. Yeah. If
anybody went to sleep and that video
started autoplay,
>> go figure, right? It doesn't really work
anymore. But
>> but that's interesting. I mean, it's
it's like kind of adapting to the
changes and tweaks of YouTube, which is
also an art in
>> Total. Total accident.
>> I don't know. I I think you've been very
smart to ride the waves as they come.
The second highest earning video, which
earned $102,000,
uh, is I pray this computer sucks cuz
I'm going to sell.
>> Yeah, that was another live stream, bud.
>> Got it. Got it. And then the next
highest earn 78,000, how to build a PC,
the last guide you'll ever need.
>> Yes.
>> Which is interesting. That's one of
those evergreen videos.
>> Absolutely. That seems like another
evolution that you've made, which is
like making evergreen content versus now
it seems like you don't make like
evergreen as much. Like can you talk
about like how you've evolved that um as
you keep your channel relevant as well?
>> Man, it's tough. There's there's always
es and flows and you know for to your
point about how to build a computer the
last guide you'll ever need. We knew
that it was not going to perform out of
the gate. Like that video was a 10 of
10,
>> which for those who don't have the
context means it was your worst
performing video out of your last 10
uploads.
>> Wow.
>> That was a 10 of 10.
>> But to now be the second or third
highest earning on your channel, that's
remarkable.
>> That was intended to be a low performer,
a slow burn is what we call them.
>> And it was also to address the general
boredom that our audience was starting
to show with
>> how to build a computer.
>> Yeah.
>> So I kind of went, okay, let's just do
it one time. Yeah. Yeah, this will be
the reference material piece. It's like
a 50inute long video or something like
that. It's long.
>> You know what's so interesting? I think
every creator has a version of that
video that they can make for their
niche.
>> You think so?
>> Yeah, I absolutely do because as you
talk about that, Lionus, I I'm reminded
of a video I made that was about 50
minutes, which was just like our YouTube
master class where I basically
summarized tips from our interviews with
Mr. Beast, with Casey Neistat, and I put
it in and it was a slow burn. like it
did not perform well out of the gate and
now it is one of our top videos in terms
of reoccurring views. Yep. Um it is one
of our top videos in terms of bringing
subscribers, AdSense and also we plugged
our newsletter
>> and that has been the big thing that has
grown our newsletter.
>> Wicked smart. And um and I think it's
like maybe once a quarter, at least once
a year, like I think a good thing for
especially newer creators to think about
is like put that slowburn video out
there that's almost like the, you know,
compilation of what you've learned about
something in your niche, at least in the
past year.
>> Yeah. No, I think that's a great piece
of feedback for for new creators.
>> So to see you do it at that level, I
think I think it's really inspiring. I
just wanted to ask about the money and
about the business of of being a tech
YouTuber even more. I think I think it's
fascinating especially with the amount
of people that you employ. A lot of your
content is reviewing products from
brands but then you also take
sponsorships from brands.
>> Absolutely.
>> H how do you handle like conflicts of
interest?
>> Everyone has their own personal line
that they draw and everyone
will look at something that is beyond
their line and go well that's not okay.
>> And so
>> where where do you draw the line? I draw
the line between
paying for airtime on my channel versus
paying for my opinion. You cannot buy my
opinion. You cannot buy my labs team's
analysis.
What you can buy is airspace for what is
clearly
separately obviously your talking
points. Mhm.
>> And that has been a pretty good recipe
for us over the years. Um, another thing
that we did very early on is we
recognized the vulnerability that being
dependent on the same brands u for
sponsorship for providing products that
we need to review in a timely manner. um
that our responsibility is to criticize
was inherently
a conflict of interest.
>> Because that's the thing, a conflict of
interest is not um an actual necessarily
negative occurrence.
>> What it is is a perception of a
potential negative occurrence. So, the
fact that we work with, you know, let's
say, uh, AMD on our AMD ultimate tech
upgrade series and we review AMD
processors when they release, that is a
conflict of interest. But all we can
really do at that point is say, hey,
these are this is our editorial rules.
AMD can buy talking points in AMD
Ultimate Tech Upgrade and they can they
can, you know, buy a promotion of a
giveaway. Yeah. Of a Steam Deck or
whatever. What they can't buy is our
opinion in our editorial videos and then
we just have to walk that walk.
>> Isn't there like even subconsciously a
chance to like favor them or have a bias
if they're paying you for a sponsorship?
>> Of course. and then you're reviewing
their product in a review video that's
supposed to be purely editorial.
>> And I think that an extremely dangerous
space that some of my peers seem to have
ended up in is believing that they are
impervious to conflicts of interest. I
think to your point, you have to be
constantly aware of it. If anything,
what we have tried to do over the years
is take a bit of a coach's son approach,
which is not going to help me sell a lot
of sponsorships right now, but is going
to help me maintain my integrity for
maybe another 17 years and maintain the
perception of our channel's integrity
because, you know, no matter what, I
don't care if you're our biggest
sponsor. You know, I I remember this one
time we did um we were working with
Intel like very regularly, very closely
at the time, and we uploaded this video
where we had a makeup artist come in and
do me up all like battered and bruised
and we had um do do you know like light
guns like like duck hunt?
>> Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Of course. Like the
Super Nintendo like Yeah. Duck.
>> So we had like a plastic light gun.
>> Yeah. Um, and I did this intro for my
video where I was reading clearly under
duress a statement from Intel, like
taking back, you know, the mean things
that I said about their previous, you
know, processor or something. And I'm
like faltering in the read and the gun
like makes its way into frame and it's a
blue gun because we were trying to
convey, you know, that Intel would
obviously like me to say nice things
about their their processor and take
back the mean things I said. And in the
middle of the statement, I go, "No, I
won't do it." And I like I grab the gun
and I like blow my way out of it and I
like leave the frame. And you know,
that's the kind of thing that we go out
of our way to do. We go out of our way
to make it clear that when a company is
deserving of criticism that we will not
shy away from it. We're not afraid to
criticize the hand that feeds us because
at the end of the day, we only want to
work with companies that have the
integrity to be criticized, that take
accountability for the errors that they
make. And um another example was uh
Nvidia. Speaking of Nvidia, um, big
company,
>> arrogant company. Have they earned the
arrogance? I don't know. They're
trillion plus dollar valuation might say
they have, but no question. They got an
ego. and one of their people basically
got into it with an independent reviewer
member of the media that I would
consider much more on the journalism
side compared to what we do which is
tech education and we we make it
entertaining and sometimes we will delve
into things that journalists would do
but I've never claimed to be a
journalist whereas he tends to take more
of a a journalist approach um and so
they got into it with this guy basically
going, "Well, if you don't tow the line
in terms of our marketing bullet points,
uh, we're not going to seed you cards
anymore, so you're not going to be able
to do day one reviews, and that's going
to hurt your business." Basically, like
mafia tactics,
>> withholding access.
>> And and the funny thing is, they're not
obligated to send them a GPU, right? Of
course not. They're not obligated to
send me a GPU. I could buy a GPU the
same as anyone else, but there's always
been an understanding that there's a
mutual benefit here. We benefit from
having early access giving us time to
properly evaluate the product so that
the day it goes on sale, people can be
educated on it. And the benefit to them
is if it's a really outstanding product,
we will say really outstanding things
about it. But the risk is if it's not a
really outstanding product, we're going
to be honest about that. And this
particular Nvidia rep who no longer
works there had fundamentally
misunderstood that deal and thought that
sending out GPUs was a marketing expense
and that this was a marketing exercise.
It's like bro,
no it isn't. And so instead of just not
sending them a card, which is well
within their rights, they sent them an
email threatening to not send cards if
they didn't get in line. Well, that's
not okay. And so we called it out. Well,
first I had a call with Nvidia to get
their side of the story. It was exactly
as bad as it sounded, worse in some
ways. Um, so that was horrible. Uh, and
then we went on our podcast and ripped
them a new [__] [snorts]
This was on the heels of us doing a very
lucrative brand deal with them around
the launch of the 3090 GPU.
And they didn't work with us for two
years, over two years, I think,
>> because you criticized them publicly.
because one person who isn't there
anymore got ass hurt about me calling
out their abominable behavior and so
they they didn't work with us for a very
long time.
>> How big was that deal? Just to like put
in perspective what
>> the the 3090 deal.
>> Yeah.
>> I think I could probably just say I
think it was it was over $50,000 though.
>> Got it.
>> So it was a lot of money.
>> Yeah. Um but
my business philosophy has always been
diversify and spend conservatively.
Yeah. Right. So we have always always
had a goal to get to the point where no
single company in the tech space could
ever hold us hostage.
>> We will never be dependent on anyone.
Nvidia, Apple, Apple, Apple has emailed
me once. I think that's it. They they
like [__] hate me. Um, Intel, AMD, I
don't care.
>> Wait, why does Apple hate you?
>> Oh, because I'm not I mean, it's
speculation, right? Because they don't
communicate with me. Um, but there's a
number of things. If you want to cover
Apple, you have to play the game. You
have to fit the image. I don't fit the
image, right? Like, I'm more W than
Jobs. And to be clear, Steve Waznjak is
a lot smarter than me. I'm not actually
comparing myself to Steve Waznjak. I'm
just saying Apple moved away from the
geeky nuts and bolts of their origin
towards the, you know, now they're the
company that the latest version of their
AirPods Pro doesn't even have a little
>> sort of lever point so you can pry off
the ear tip because that wouldn't be
sleek enough, I guess.
>> Um,
so I'm not sleek.
I also make content that they don't
like.
>> You know, I made videos on hackintoshing
back in the day, so running Mac OS on on
unapproved PC hardware. Um, I am less
focused on design and more focused on
techspec a lot of the time. Um, I
fundamentally disagree with a lot of
their decisions. I I agree 100% with the
with Epic's lawsuit that Apple was
running functionally a monopoly um and
engaging in many monopolistic practices
through their app store and through
their ecosystem. Um I don't like user
lockin. I like open ecosystems. So
there's just a lot of fundamental
disagreements that
>> Apple as a company and I have. Um, I
don't like the way that um,
>> unnecessarily many Apple devices end up
shredded and e-waste because of issues
with fleet management and the way that
uh, device unlocking has to be done
explicitly. They shred for a for a
company that claims to be so
eco-conscious, they shred so many
devices unnecessarily through their
policies. And uh, I don't like
hypocrisy. Um, they're an extremely
hypocritical company.
I mean, Lance, have you ever felt like
it was hard to speak truth to power?
Like like like hearing you say that like
Apple doesn't like you or that you know
like you're so big now and that your
business is diverse with all your
different income streams which I want to
talk about that you can like have like
more outspoken opinions in some ways
versus I'm thinking about the smaller
YouTubers who are starting out and if
they speak bad about a company
>> Yeah. And if that YouTuber has to make
like reviews of products to start out
and like you said like in that example
in video withholding like a new product
could mean that creator doesn't make a
video could mean that creator doesn't
make as much money and could mean that
creator doesn't survive.
>> I want to make one thing clear. Nvidia
did still continue to see this product
but they didn't work with us in a
sponsored capacity. Yeah. For years. Um,
well, I think what these creators need
to ask themselves is, do they want to be
a tech YouTuber or do they want to be a
tech YouTuber for a really long time?
Because if you ever make it big, I
guarantee you someone will go dig back
into what you did in the past. And if
your integrity was ever for sale,
they'll find it.
>> And so,
you're just you're robbing your future
self by pulling your punches. I'm not
saying that you should be malicious or
you should be irresponsible. I think
there were times in the past where there
were errors in our content that I wish
our production pipeline was more
sophisticated and that we could have
caught that have created problems for
for brands that we've covered. And I
regret those things, right? You should
never just be negative for the sake of
doing damage.
But if you believe something, then you
should never hold back from that. And if
you've measured something, then you
should expose it.
>> What's interesting like uh and and I
think perhaps like relevant to think
more like long term is the relationship
between quality and quantity when it
comes to YouTube videos. Like you put
out an like a vast quantity of videos.
Like I I was looking at it this past
month. You put out over 25 videos across
your different channels. And I'm
wondering how do you keep up the quality
when you have to be so detailed? um
you're you're reviewing like products
from companies that have put like years
of R&D into it. Um like how do you like
maintain that? Especially because like
Lionus, I I have this video I wanted to
pull up um from your channel that I
>> Oh boy.
>> So here's an inside look at how we make
our videos. I have everything that we
just filmed for this video on this SD
card. And normally I'd copy it to my
computer, put it on these drives, ship
it out to my editor since we're all
remote and our files are massive. But
today, thanks to our sponsor, Dropbox,
that entire process just got a whole lot
easier. With Dropbox, I could just plug
in my card, start uploading to a shared
folder with my editor, and that's it.
And while it's uploading, I could batch
rename my files to organize them. And if
my computer crashes in the middle of a
project down the road, or erases my
work, then Dropbox Rewind helps me
recover and restore things to exactly
how it was before the crash. Best of
all, with Dropbox Dash, which is
Dropbox's new universal search and
knowledge management tool, you can find
anything across the apps you use most.
Like, even if you forgot what you named
your files or where you saved them, I I
can just type in a keyword and boom,
instantly all the footage, edits,
photos, it's it's all in there. Plus,
with Dropbox Dash, it integrates with
Google, notion, and so much more. So,
you can work in one place, not 10
different apps and tabs and folders. And
with Stacks, you can group together
content related to one project. So all
your scripts, project files, it's all in
one place and then you could easily
share with one click with your team and
clients. So thanks again to Dropbox for
sponsoring. Try it today using my link
below to see how Dropbox can help you
and your team create faster. All right,
now back to the video.
>> I I was surprised you put this on your
channel, this video where employees talk
about what it's like to work at Linus
Media Group. It's interesting because a
lot of the employees talked about like
your speed of production and wanting
more time to really double check the
quality of the videos and and especially
the reviews and and I'm wondering like
how do you balance those two?
>> You know, I can tell you now that our
upload frequency is I think half of what
it was two years ago.
>> So, as much as like yeah, we upload a
lot of videos, we also have a pretty
sizable team. So, our writing department
is not spread nearly as thin as it used
to be.
>> Um, Linus Tech Tips, the main channel,
only gets, I think, about three and a
half uploads per week. Other than the
WAN show, the weekly podcast, that's
more off the cuff. And I think the
expectations of
>> perfection are a lot lower there. It's
live. Um whereas before it used to be
six and multiple channels that used to
post regularly so uh techquicki
gamelings and map address have been
hiatused while we just have gotten our
house in order over the last couple of
years
>> in terms of how we're doing it today. I
mean, you see, you know, the frontman,
right, for the band standing up there
and, you know, singing, but what you
don't see is um our writing team is, I
think, 10 right now. Well, that's how
because we have a lot of people doing
the work. We've also put a lot of new
workflows in place ever since, like I
said, there was significant valid
criticism, even if it came from um in in
my opinion a malicious place and even if
it was full of mistakes and false
assumptions, there was a lot of valid
criticism of our channel, right? And so
we have to
>> what?
>> Oh, like like just errors in the
accuracy, you know, errors on the
graphs. um in incomplete explanations
and and that's something that we were
looking at already. You know, I had
already hired a CEO
>> to help me get the ship in order. You
know, we had we had already started the
process because we had recognized the
issues,
>> but it takes time.
>> Yeah.
>> And these things take time and and so
we've put a lot of processes in place.
So we have a more formal um error
response rubric now you know where we
determine the severity and we have you
know how to determine what the severity
is and what the action that we take is
so it's no longer a question internally
like oh there's an error in the video
what do I do because that used to be it
it used to just wait until like I made a
call
>> whereas now we have all these different
severity levels and we have all these
different action plans that we can take
>> if an error is spotted
>> if it's like take me through a decision
entry like what's an example?
>> Sure. Well, here I can just I can just
bring it up, right? Because we posted we
published it.
>> Yeah,
>> here it is. Video error handling
standard operating procedure or SOP.
>> Okay. We classify errors in terms of
whether they are script errors or verbal
errors or whether they are visual
errors. Those have their own sort of
action plans.
>> And then we rate them in severity from
one which is very low severity. This
statement could possibly be
misunderstood, but is generally true and
most people would be fine with how it's
currently presented. All the way up to
five, which is very high severity. This
statement is very incorrect. Basically,
the opposite of correct. There's no
charitable interpretation that could
make this anything but completely
irresponsible.
>> And so, at a one, we take no action. Um,
at a five, the video is removed until
corrective action can be taken.
>> Who's assessing this? And so this would
be assessed by our channel manager.
>> Channel manager.
>> Yeah.
>> And and is this after the video is done?
>> Well, this would be this. Okay. This
assumes that the video is published.
>> Okay. Yeah. But Oh, before a video is
done, we fix it.
>> We fix it. Yeah. And you try to do
everything to put good faith effort to
fact check and and and make sure the
video like is as true as possible. This
is if like comments are coming in like,
hey, that's off. What's going on? That's
where your channel manager assesses the
severity and you take one of those
actions. So beforehand we do our own
script review. So two writers will look
at any script at least before it gets
published. And then we also have a
really amazing group of community
members that we call the ECC squad.
>> That's so interesting to hear because I
I got to be honest like one thing I
struggle with is like I put a ton of
research into these interviews and our
graphics and everything and I want to
make sure they're as accurate as
possible and the few times I've tried to
like outsource or hire people for this I
found errors.
>> That's why you got to do both.
>> And and Yeah. But but then then I'm like
I I just I just um say, "Oh, no, no,
thank you. I'm not outsourcing this."
And I bring it back in house. And and I
feel like that's hurt us from growing as
fast.
>> Yeah.
>> And you're you're putting out so many
pieces of content and and some of it
you're like the the bloodiest is the
first one through the glass. Um but also
you've developed processes that can fix
that.
>> And you know,
>> they create their own problems. I mean,
I can tell you that burnout on our team
is way worse now that we have these like
endless checks. Like our Dan, um, one of
our guys who works kind of in it
slashadmin slash he's our podcast
producer, wears a lot of hats. Um, he
created a flowchart of the process start
to finish of creating, ideulating an LTT
video and pressing publish. And it was,
I kid you not, like like like 10 pages
long for like flow processes and stuff
with all the different departments and
all the different checks that need to be
done. And we're trying to figure out how
to streamline it again right now cuz
it's it's this constant dialing in.
Nobody ever has it perfect. And yeah,
were we too fly by night and loosey
goosey before? Yeah, undoubtedly. Did we
go too far the other way to the point
where we had like fact check paralysis?
Yeah, probably. So, we're going to have
to find our balance again.
>> That's so interesting here in the in the
context of YouTube cuz I feel like to
succeed on this platform, you have to be
a speedboat, not a cruise ship.
>> And it's interesting to hear like how
you navigate that as such a big channel.
>> How about a speed ship? [laughter]
>> I don't know. I mean, like, uh,
>> the world's biggest jet ski. You're just
like a little You're a little guy on the
top of it. It's like huge.
I I mean it just like I I I we're
growing and and it's it's been a lot to
like think about like checklists and
processes. I can't imagine like the
scale of 100 plus employees
>> and it's not something that comes
naturally to me which again is why I
sort of recognized the situation we were
in and was trying to hire process. Yeah.
And and and leadership in that way.
anything else with like writing or or
scripting or like other like rules of of
YouTube that you have like Lionus like
I just think like like you put pen to
paper before you turn on a camera in a
really interesting way and seeing you
like go through a teleprompter like it
seems like you're very like tactical
with the words that you say.
>> Nobody wants their time wasted. It's our
most precious resource. And as part of
my writing process, I will I will I will
rehearse as I'm writing. I tell the
writers, I even tell our business team
when they're putting together sponsor
talking points. I'm like, if you haven't
read it out loud, you haven't done the
work because that's what it's ultimately
destined for. It's not destined to be
words on a page. It's destined to be
read and it's destined to be heard.
>> Go stand in front of a mirror. I don't
care if you're our on-screen talent or
not. Do it with inflection because
you'll catch all kinds of errors that
way. like, oh man. Um, sometimes you'll
end up with a paragraph that is so full
of 13900K running at 4.8 gigahertz with
256 kilobytes of level one cache and
blah blah blah where it becomes
incomprehensible.
You read that easily, but listening to
it is like painful. And so the the the
spoken pass, the voice pass or the or
the reading it rehearsal to yourself is
a way that you can catch things like
that before they ever make it to the
teleprompter. You read something like
that and you go, "This is awful. Why
don't we just say it's a really fast CPU
and show all the numbers on screen?
We're creating for video for crying out
loud. We don't have to say everything."
That's so, you know, it's so interesting
you say that reminds me of my interview
with Ara where he bought all his editors
webcams and mics. So when they do temp
audio, they're they're performing it
like him instead of writing it as a
placeholder before, you know, Eric comes
in
>> because it'll help with the pacing.
>> It'll help with the pacing.
>> Yeah.
>> So it's interesting to hear like voice
passes. I Yeah. I feel like not too many
creators like do that at all.
>> Uh you know, I'm up to like 10,000
videos now or something like that. So
this is what this is what 10,000 videos
look like if you start being complete
ass. So anyone can do it. It just takes
so much so much practice. Yeah, I saw
this graph that you recently put out
about how you guys make money.
>> Yeah.
>> I was wondering if you could break this
down and talk about how you think about
the money that comes in the Alliance
Media Group.
>> Um, I think about it in terms of
sustainability, right? So, every one of
these revenue streams, you know, you
>> they have different characteristics,
right? So, some of them are more
profitable than others. Like this is
just revenue. This is dollars
[clears throat] coming in. Yeah,
>> I could have
$100 million revenue
if I sold screwdrivers for
10 million of them.
>> That would be $100 million revenue, but
I would have lost tens of millions of
dollars. So, that's not that's not
profitability. That doesn't help me pay
my employees. It doesn't help me buy
equipment. It doesn't help me keep the
lights on, right?
>> So, you break this revenue down and you
look at it in terms of like, okay, how
profitable is it?
>> How predictable is it? Uh, Flowplane,
for instance, is only 7.2%
of our revenue.
>> That's your membership.
>> That's our membership.
>> Yeah. Content.
>> Yeah.
>> But that's a subscription.
>> That's recurring. Those are from our
incredible like, shout out my floaters.
Um, those those are from our incredible
supporters who are giving us anywhere
from three to$10 a month to, you know,
sometimes behind the scenes early access
um just to support the channel. And we
have over 40,000 of them right now.
>> Wow. and they're awesome and I can count
on that. So when I'm planning, you know,
when I'm going, okay, you know, yeah,
can we can we have a dedicated person
whose job it is is to just go around and
make behind the scenes for them. I go,
well, yeah, of course we can because we
can count on them,
>> right? Whereas if I were to look at um
YouTube AdSense,
I can count on that to a degree, but
it's more volatile. If we have a rough
month for uploads, AdSense goes way
down.
>> Mhm. And then if we have a really great
month, AdSense goes way up.
>> Floatplane doesn't have that. It never
has a spike, but it never has really a
big dip. It's been pretty consistent
growth overall, you know, outside of
scandals or whatever. And then, okay,
invido sponsor spots and sponsored
projects. Uh these are quite predictable
because world-class team, our business
team is outstanding. We brought business
in-house over 10 years ago. We don't use
outside uh like agents. We do work with
agencies. Yeah. Um and some of them are
really great,
>> some of them are not great. Um and
that's why we brought it in house. But
our team is outstanding and they are a
big part of why we can weather a storm
in our AdSense because if you look at
it,
>> invide sponsor spots and fully sponsored
videos are each about as much as AdSense
overall. So where one channel that
doesn't have those might have their
adsense drop by a third which drops
their revenue by a third, our revenue
will drop by one one
>> nth
>> which is a lot more sustainable.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. Um
>> and just to differentiate those uh inv
video sponsorships are like a 60-second
integration.
>> Sponsored projects are the entire video
is about the product.
>> Yeah.
>> YouTube AdSense is like pure profit. I
don't have any headcount. that's
directly associated with YouTube
AdSense. Whereas sponsored projects and
invido sponsor spots, they're a lot of
work. They're [clears throat] a heavy
lift, right? We could just upload the
video and we would get ads.
>> Well, I mean, there's a ton of editing
costs and production costs that go
there, but that that's kind of shared
across a lot,
>> but it's shared across everything.
Whereas, you know, directly there's
people who create flow plane
>> to double click on sponsorships. Like,
do you have any like tips or like how do
you guys pitch like sponsors or like
like how do you like land a deal?
because I I think bringing in in-house
is such an interesting move. We've done
the same thing and I find that we've
been far more effective. I'm wondering
like how have you been able to land
bigger sponsors or what do you do
inhouse that kind of differentiates you
guys?
>> I would say um you know a big part of it
is understanding who you're talking to
>> and for us a really important thing is
treating every brand deal like it could
be a long-term relationship.
>> And sometimes that means not charging as
much. Someone might come to you with an
offer and you go that's too much. I
cannot give you ROI on that
>> because I want them to come back. I want
repeat customers. I want because that's
part of having a diverse predictable,
right? Predictable. I want a predictable
revenue stream. So, we like to work with
brands on at least a quarterly, ideally
an annual basis in terms of their
upfront commitments for what we're going
to do for the year. and we like to make
sure that they are getting taken care of
and make sure that they're getting a
return on that. Um, so like, okay, we
had a collab product a little while ago
that was like a co-branded one. I'm not
going to name it because it flopped.
>> And you know, that was impacting their
willingness to spend with us and I
basically went to the business team and
I said,
>> "Fucking find a way to sell it.
>> It's to be clear, it didn't flop because
it's like bad. It's not harmful to the
user or anything like that. It's a
perfectly good product. It's just it was
kind of expensive and and it was kind of
a niche product and whatever, right?
>> Um like but it's fine. It's it's good
product. No such thing as a bad product,
just a bad price.
>> Sort not really. But the point is I went
to them. I was like, "Hey, we need to do
what it takes. We need to like promote
this,
>> you know, buy the inventory from them
and then sell it at a loss on our store.
I don't care. But we have to do right
because at the end of the day,
>> you know, I take the word partner
extremely seriously, right? And brands
are not just brands like they're they're
partners. They
>> they give us something, we give them
something in return. You know, tech
companies, they I see them as a partner,
too. They give us the product to review.
We give up them our honest feedback.
>> The deal has to be clear. It has to be
upfront. So in the case of a of a brand
sponsor, right, they are expecting some
kind of ROI. Well, find out what it is.
What are their KPIs for this campaign?
Do they want people to sign up for their
giveaway? Do they want sales? Do they
want awareness? What what are they
after?
>> And how do we make sure that we are not
taking such an ridiculous amount of
money that it's going to leave a bad
taste in their mouth? And we don't
always get it right. Nobody does. But in
general, we try to I like to stack W's
>> is what I tell the team. And the more
W's we can stack, the better. So, one of
my best examples, this was like probably
my best idea ever, was our tech upgrade
series, which at first we had sponsored
by Intel and then they dropped the ball
and now it's sponsored by AMD. And we
take a member of our team and it's drawn
by lottery system and they get a $5,000
budget to do a tech dream overhaul of
whatever. It has to incorporate
something from the sponsor brand just to
make sure they're like getting some on
camera time in the video. But beyond
that, it's up to you. We've had people
buy things as diverse as neck massagers
to controllers for their meat smoker to
freaking uh model trains. like anything
you imagine it and someone on our team
has an interest in it and they want to
spend money on it.
>> And that's one of my favorite examples
of stacking W's because the company wins
because we get the sponsorship revenue.
>> The sponsor wins because they get this
incredible positive brand association
that is deeply integrated to your point
before into content that is just for
tech lovers by tech lovers. It it
creates all the good vibes that you want
from naturally sp sponsored content
that's not shoehorned in there. It's not
unnatural. Yeah. Right. The audience
wins because they love it and they get
an opportunity to meet members of our
team that they otherwise would never get
a chance to meet. They get to see behind
the curtain that way and they freaking
love it. They also get a lot of
practical
um inspiration from these because we're
making very different decisions, very
personal decisions when someone is
spending their own $5,000 budget versus
when we're trying to imagine a
hypothetical person and design a gaming
PC for them. Yeah. Right. And then the
fourth W is for the person who gets the
upgrade.
>> They get a $5,000 upgrade.
>> Yeah.
>> Everybody wins. What else in this uh
like uh pie chart
>> creator warehouse okay that is greater
than half of our total revenue now
>> give context for people who don't know
what is that
>> so that's our that's our merch brand our
merch development company essentially
now I mean it's got 20 people works for
it or something like that uh you know
plus you know 3PL logistics plus you
know contractors and whatnot um and it's
it's it's a huge source of revenue for
us now but it has sort the worst things
of all of the others
>> all piled into it, right? Like it has
lower margin compared to just uploading
a video and getting AdSense money. Yeah.
>> Um much much higher overhead. It is it
is I guess these are all just money.
Like it's it's so expensive to run a
physical goods business. It has a ton of
potential brand damage exposure, right?
Like all it takes is, you know, one
customer service representative to miss
one stupid email and someone's on Reddit
being like, "So much for Lionus' trust
me bro guarantee." It's like,
>> dude, if I'd seen the email, I'd have
been happy to respond to it. But, you
know, stuff happens, right? And and to
be clear, you know, I'm not upset with
them for airing their grievances. It's a
it's a real valid grievance, but
>> it is also frustrating for me because
no, I literally cannot like reply to
every customer support ticket. Sometimes
there are things beyond our control like
the whole situation with tariffs in the
US right now led to a lot of confusion
in the logistics industry that led to a
lot of packages being failed to deliver
and just ultimately destroyed and so
people would order like a limited
edition product and we only printed it
limited edition because we're not going
to lie to you and say it's limited
edition but actually we're just going to
make it forever and then your your
package gets destroyed because it got
lost in the tariff confusion and then we
can't send you another one like I didn't
ask you to cancel the order. I just
wanted my order. It's like [snorts] I
don't have one. I don't have one to send
you.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. And so it creates a lot of it's a
huge surface that your brand is exposed
over and the lead times are are
horrible. Like I mean we famously took
three years to develop our screwdriver.
That's just R&D R&D R&D R&D R&D for
maybe a return,
>> right? And so, yeah, it looks really
impressive, right? It's that big piece
of the pie, but it's the kind of thing
that I wouldn't encourage every small
creator to go chasing right away because
there's other lowerhanging fruit, you
know, more profitable, [clears throat]
easier to scale things,
>> more predictable,
>> more predictable. And but this is I
mean, this is how you turn yourself from
>> an online influencer into a brand. And
that's something that I can't take any
credit for pioneering, but it's
definitely something that I recognized
over time because
>> we ask ourselves, you know, what value
are we adding? And when it came to just
like putting our logo on t-shirts and
hats, I wasn't convinced there was a ton
of value. But if we had an idea, you
know, whether it's a folding clothes
hanger or whether it's a really amazing
everyday carry knife, you know, to call
out a couple of other really cool
creator products or whether it's a just
a better balanced screwdriver,
>> um, then yeah, I think using the
resources that you gain on the the
influence side to to make a product that
people are really going to love is,
as far as I can tell, the current
endgame.
>> Yeah. How many products do you guys
have? Like how many have you built in
house?
>> Oh, uh, at least 100. I don't know.
Lots. Like everything I'm wearing right
now, this hoodie,
>> the zippers, everything else. Wow.
>> No, the zipper is YKK.
>> But, but I mean, you guys have like put
this all together.
>> Oh, yeah. Yeah. These are the cargo
pants I'm wearing are fully custom. The
lanyard my keys are on is custom. My
underwear is LTT.
>> Wow. Uh, the only thing that I'm wearing
that is not LT other than the Vessie
shoes from our sponsor Vessie are these
socks that I got at Creator Summit
YouTube socks.
>> Got it. Lionus, can you share what uh
like topline revenue is? Like how much
is Linus Tech Tips worth today? Lionus
Media Group.
>> Oo, that's a good question. I I try not
to like I had to look this up.
>> I don't actually get like a quarterly
breakdown of this stuff. Um, I like to
be really focused on the creative side
of things as long as, you know, the
lights are on and everybody's being paid
on time and I can have a budget for
whackadoodle projects. Like I bought a
$30,000 CPU cooler recently, which is
like insane. Uh, we bought we spent 15
grand on um a display wall,
>> you know, like LED display wall uh on
Craigslist. Yeah. Sight unseen. But our
viewers love that stuff, you know. They
want to see us
>> be the one to who would possibly buy
this on Craigslist.
>> I'll be the guy. I'll [snorts] do it.
Let's all and let's all experience what
that's like together, right? So, as long
as I have that,
>> I don't worry too much about that. What
I will say is that if someone were to
offer for our company today, uh it
wouldn't be as much as the offer that
I've talked about in the past, which was
a hundred million. Um I would be
surprised if it was less than 50.
>> You would sell for less than 50.
>> No, no. I'd be surprised if someone
offered less than 50. I would laugh at
them if it was less than 50.
>> Why Why would the value or the offer of
Linus Media Group go down?
>> We had more viewership two years ago
than we do today. And so I would say
that there's some weakening in the brand
there.
>> With that said, even though viewership
is maybe half of what it was then, I
wouldn't say that the valuation would be
half. And the reason for that is that
the physical goods business has picked
up in a big way. The creator economy has
generally matured over that time. So
sponsorship rates are always kind of
going up for us as more and more dollars
come flooding into this space. uh we are
less dependent than ever on those
sponsor dollars thanks to our in-house
developed merch um and our wonderful
supporters on flowplane. So for that
reason I would say it would probably be
somewhere between
>> you know where our viewership is and
where the previous valuation was.
>> Is there a number you'd sell Lionus
Media Group for now?
100 mil was a lot and what I asked
myself was how would this change my life
and the answer was
it wouldn't um I have been extremely
lucky I've worked hard to be clear but I
have been extremely lucky I was in the
right place at the right time with an
incredible team a supportive partner um
and I have uh and I'm like I have a
fancy car now but it was like I bought
it when it was not just affordable, you
know. I went straight from I went from
my old Civic that we would jokingly call
the Lamborghini, um, just like
ramshackle Civic, manual transmission,
you know, to I got like a Chevy Volt.
And that was when that was only really
because we were um we put my Civic on
the show floor at one of our conventions
and we put out pens and like glitter and
stuff and we let the community decorate
it and they trashed it. Unfortunately,
it was not a proud moment for our
community. They like put glue all over
the windcreen and stuff. So, I had to
get a new car. And we'd also been
thinking about doing more car content.
So, I was like, "Okay, maybe a way to do
this would be I like daily drive them."
And that's So, I bought a Chevy Volt cuz
it seemed like a super practical car.
and then went straight from there to
like the Porsche Tyan.
>> There's definitely cool stuff that I
could do, but the big dreams that I had
at that time were either within my reach
without selling.
>> Mhm.
>> Or they were dreams that I could only
really achieve by staying as the head of
the company.
>> So the ones that I needed to stay with
the company for were I think what we're
doing with labs is really important. We
have had some missteps along the way,
but I think that in time um someone has
to do something about the initification
of trying to buy stuff
>> like listicles that are written by
people or realistically AI bots that
have never actually touched the product,
right? Um storefronts like Amazon that
are just full of, you know, random brand
name that's just a bunch of consonants.
uh who paid the most to be at the top of
the search result, right? Like I want us
to go back to what I tried to do at NCIX
where we educate people on their
purchases in hopes that we will create
less waste that way because I am such a
buy once, cry once person. I'm not
saying that you shouldn't, you know,
engage in consumerism, right? You
shouldn't like buy a fancy thing that
appeals to you by by all means, you
know, whatever. I'm I'm not here to
judge. I just want you to make a wise
decision that you're happy with.
>> I don't want you to be misled into
buying the wrong thing. So, our labs
team is working on just, you know,
testing, making sure that people are
ending up with the right product.
>> Um, and we weren't done yet. We're still
not done. We have a we have a ton of
work to do. And I need to be in charge
because I need to know that it's not
just going to get cut when times are
tough. that team is a resource sync
>> and doesn't have revenue directly
attached to it and so I see the value
>> but if we were to sell to some private
equity firm or something like that I
don't know that they would see the value
>> I also don't know that they would
properly recognize the value of our team
on an ongoing basis so
>> that was a big part of why I didn't take
it from that standpoint and then in
terms of like the financial goals that I
still had I'm looking at it going well
like I wouldn't get a hundred million
dollar offer if I wasn't making money at
this company, right?
So, I wanted to start a badminton club,
but I was like, can I save up for a
couple years and do it then?
>> I can I can wait, you know?
>> Yeah. So, so, so to be clear, like, do
you regret not selling your channel for
$100 million?
>> I mean, I don't think anyone could look
you in the eye across this table and
say, "I've never thought what that might
have been like."
But regret, no.
>> Yeah. I want to rewind to when you
almost went broke.
>> Um I I I feel like
>> which time?
>> Well, I want to talk about this because
I I I've watched all your past podcast.
I feel like this is a moment you don't
talk about enough. Um can you take me
through like when you were getting
started and
>> you know, you're getting the channel up
and running and that bank account is
going to zero. Like
>> Sure.
>> What was happening because I think it's
something that a lot of creators like
relate to at first.
>> Okay. How deep do you want to go?
>> As deep as possible.
>> Okay. Let's start then. when I was
working at the computer store. So, I was
still there. I was doing my day job. I
was watching the revenue pour in from
AdSense at the time and I was
>> And this is NCIX.
>> That's right.
>> Yes. Yeah.
>> And I was going, "Okay, wow. This could
be sustainable, right? This could be
could be enough.
>> It's not enough enough." I mean, we had
117,000 subscribers, I think, when I
went indie. So,
>> you know, you do the math. That's not
enough for a team of three people right
out of the gate. It was me, two
employees, and then my wife was helping
with a lot of things behind the scenes,
but she also had her day job as a
pharmacist.
>> Now, we didn't have a huge nest egg. We
had just purchased a home and we had
just had our first kid.
>> So, that was 8 months before we started
the YouTube company. So, everything was
just the worst possible timing really.
And but I was still I was looking at
those numbers. I was going, "Okay, this
could be doable." I went to my boss.
said, "Okay, I want to leave. I want to
negotiate a deal where I take this Linus
Tech Tips channel. You keep the NCIX
TechTips channel. I help you run that
channel. I help you with the succession
plan, but I want to buy the Linus Tech
Tips channel for a dollar."
>> We ultimately did reach a deal and I
didn't have to pay for the channel. So,
that was huge, but that didn't mean that
I had startup capital. That didn't mean
that I had a huge runway. All I really
had was a small nest egg that my wife
and I had started to build up around the
time that we decided to do it. So that
was in August. Yeah. You know, and we
split in the end of December, so not a
ton. And then we also had my wife's
income, but even that was reduced
because she was on maternity leave at
the time.
>> So
looking back, it's insane. I I I don't
know what the heck we were possibly
thinking, but the trick was doing it.
And what I learned is that in business,
you make a lot of friends.
>> You make a lot of people who you think
can will have your back, you know, if
you were to ever lose your job or shift
positions or or need help in some way.
And what you discover is that once
you're not in a position where they kind
of need you to buy their product or
market their product or whatever else, a
lot of those friendships evaporate. And
so what happened was I looked at it
going, "Okay, well here's all these
brands that I have really good contacts
at.
>> If even a fraction of them will, you
know, sponsor us, then we can make this
work." And that's exactly what I ended
up with. I ended up with just a fraction
of them. Our very first CES, basically
the only reason we were able to do it,
and that was a really makeorb breakak
moment for us. So CES is the consumer
electronics show. That's where every
tech brand goes. And I knew we needed to
be there because we needed a bunch of
content and I needed contacts both to
get our hands on product so that we
could review it and also to try to make
inroads with the marketing folks so that
we could sustain our business. And this
is your first CES as an independent
YouTuber.
>> That's right. So, we got enough
sponsorship. I believe our gold sponsor
was $5,000 and that covered we uploaded
I think somewhere between 30 and 40
videos. That was our gold sponsor for
those videos. And our silver sponsors I
believe were $2,500 each. We got
$10,000, which was a ton of money at the
time and still a lot of money, but a
week long trip to Vegas for four people,
right? It was me, I had Luke, I had
Edel, and then we actually had another
guy who was there with us to kind of
help us out. And that's where the magic
kind of comes in because you're probably
looking at it going, "Okay, hotel and
flights for three to four people for
$10,000. That's how could you possibly
make any money on it?" So the fourth guy
was just a buddy of Luke's whose dad
wanted him to make inroads in the tech
industry. So he was a tag along and his
dad covered our hotels if I recall
correctly. So that was the only way we
were able to get there.
>> And when we got there, we were able to
make some connections that ultimately
led to our first brand deals. They were
really small, but what they allowed us
to do was survive. Because the first six
months we were burning like any startup
business, we were burning cash.
>> Payroll goes out, AdSense comes in, but
it's not enough. And right the week,
literally the week that we ran out of
the nest egg and Ivon's income and we
reached that inflection point where we
were not going to have payroll,
the first sponsor check arrived from
those connections we made at CES. But
that's how close it was and that was
what it took. So that week we did over
30 videos plus I was having meetings
with any brand manager that would even
take a phone call or a text message or
an email uh for five minutes just please
let me talk to you about what we're
doing. I had this cringe pitch deck.
>> This is this is the pitch deck you used
to get your first sponsors.
>> Yeah.
>> Wow.
>> I like pretty much did it myself. Ed
cleaned it up a little bit. I did all
the copy and it's not very good. But
hey, it got the job done.
>> I'm wondering when you were at your like
old job at um NCIX, like were there
things that you were learning before you
went independent that you now apply
today or that helped you make that jump?
Like
>> I'll tell you the last thing that I
learned there first, the most important
one is time management.
>> So my boss calls me into his office. He
goes, "Our competitors are making these
videos. I think online video is the
future." And I'm like, "Okay." I was
I've always been more of a text guy. I I
like reading. I like writing video. I
had no background in video whatsoever.
In front of, behind a camera, on a
timeline, nothing. Um, so he calls me
into his office. He goes, "Well, I want
you to make these videos so that we have
videos, too, because I don't know, you
seem presentable enough and you care
about, you know, what a RAM timing is.
So, so, so go make videos." And like
many of his assignments, I treated it
like it was a passing thought of his
that he'd forget about. So, I ignored
it. And then he brought me in a few
weeks later and he goes, "Why haven't
you done this?" in much more colorful
language. Basically, where the [__] are
these videos? And I kind of go, "Well, I
didn't want to tell him I didn't do it
because I thought you weren't serious
about it the same way that I, you know,
did things with my father. You know, my
my dad when I was growing up, he would
ask me to do something." And the only
way to know if he actually cared or not
was to not do it and then wait to see if
he followed it up, right? Because he'd
ask all kinds of random stuff. So, I was
like, I didn't want to say, "Well, Jack,
I didn't do it because I thought that
[laughter]
you probably would forget." Uh, so I
kind of went, "Oh, yeah. Well, I've just
been really busy, you know." And he
goes, "Well, no more excuses." And he
literally goes to the president of the
company's office. He takes the camera
that he bought for his son for Christmas
that apparently he didn't use. He brings
it over. He hands it to me. He assigns
me someone from our graphic design
department who is the original the
cameraman to operate the camera and to
edit the videos. And he goes, "Okay, no
more excuses. Do it." And I kind of
went,
"Okay."
So that very first one was I basically
had no idea what I was doing and I was
trying to find something bite-sized,
something I didn't have to do a ton of
research for because
>> time management, I already had multiple
jobs. Uh, so I picked a heat sink. Very
simple, easy story. I decided very early
on that
>> to make a review video about
>> well I wouldn't necessarily describe it
as a review and I'll get to that because
very early on I felt that the worst
thing that you could do as a company was
sell. Selling is gross. Nobody, you
know, think about a salesman trope.
Do you like it? M
>> whether it's an extended warranty upsell
or you know whether it's uh going to
check with my manager to see if they can
do that price. Do you like anything
about salesmanship?
>> No. I mean definitely has like a stigma
around it.
>> Right. And so I decided very early on
that if we were going to build an
authentic relationship with our
customers who ultimately we wanted to
sell them computer hardware, it had to
be through education. So that very first
video was not intended to be a review.
It was intended to simply impart some
knowledge that would help people make an
informed decision when they were
shopping.
>> So, I got this heat sink that I felt was
a really good value, the Sunbeam Tech
Tunic Tower, and I did a simple tutorial
of how to install it. And I got a lot of
push back for that approach because
upper Management wanted me to sell,
sell, sell, sell, do a segment on our
weekly special. And I'm like, no,
>> no, no, no, no. We should create a more
informed customer base and then
naturally if you do a good job of the
weekly sale, they'll see products that
they recognize are good and they'll buy
them.
>> And that's a much healthier
relationship.
>> Yeah.
>> But where we had a fundamental
disagreement was where he said, "Our
primary goal as a company is to stock
less, is to buy less inventory." And I
said, "I don't think that's a good
guiding star. I think our primary goal
as a company should be to sell more, not
buy less, because buying less is a is a
shrinking company mindset.
>> Selling more is a growth mindset. And we
argued about it sort of back and forth
for a while.
>> You and the owner.
>> Yeah.
>> And he ultimately said, "Look,
>> I don't want to argue about this
anymore. this is the direction I've set
and if you can't get behind it then
maybe you should just make videos.
Well, obviously he meant for him. But I
mean the numbers had been going up. You
know, the the first time I could buy
coffee with an AdSense check was well in
the rearview mirror.
>> The first time I could buy a meal was
also well in the rearview mirror. It had
been growing and growing and growing and
I kind of went, "Yeah, maybe I should
just make videos."
And that was when I started to kind of
lay the groundwork for what a plan would
look like to to separate, what a
negotiation with him might look like to
be able to retain the channel. And so I
basically came to them with two offers.
>> I'm leaving. Offer number one is I buy
the Linus Tech Tips channel for $1. You
have no equity. I own it and I own the
IP. I own linus techtips.com the domain
which currently you own but then I will
own and I will in return give you two
years of a very reasonable deal for me
to continue to host NCX tech tips on
what will still be your channel.
>> During that time I will come in once a
week. I will post the videos and I will
also do some mentorship to help you
build out an internal team that will
continue to run those videos for you.
Also, I will give you a perpetual
license for any Linus Tech Tips content
to continue to use it as rich video
merchandising on your site.
>> Wow.
>> Because if you recall, that's how they
were using it.
>> Any product that they sold, it was nice
to have a video on the page. So, you
guys
>> forever licensed fee free will use Linus
Tech Tips content on your website.
Number three, I will sign a non-compete
where I will not take sponsorships for a
period of I think I gave them two years
or three, something like that with
competing retail entities. And I had
some stipulations for what made
something competing. But we agreed with
a handshake that Newegg was competing
and Amazon was competing and like tech
retailers were competing. But if I was
to do something for say Home Depot, that
that would not be [snorts] competing. It
wasn't just a blanket. Anything that's a
retailer is competing.
>> Yeah,
>> that was my offer.
Offer number two, I'm leaving and I have
no prospects, so I'm going to go work
for Newegg,
>> their biggest competitor.
>> Yes. Because I don't want to be here
anymore.
>> Wow. And what happened from there? Was
there a response? So it took them
actually almost 4 months to sign the
deal and I have to take part of the
responsibility for that because the way
that I departed was in retrospect not
great. On the one hand I did graciously
give them four months notice which is a
long time. I now recognize especially a
very long time and to go back I would
not do that and I wouldn't ask anyone
for that much notice because
realistically once someone has given
their resignation
>> they're done they're like they're
they're done they're out and and no
amount of of self willpower can make you
care about something that you literally
are not invested in anymore right um so
I gave them four months notice but
without talking to them about it I tried
to poach the cameramen
and when they found out
our deal that we had, they wanted to rip
it up. They came back, they said, and it
it was emotional, but it was a valid
emotion. They were really angry that I
would without even talking to them.
These are people that we got to
remember, right? Business is business,
but relationships are relationships.
These are people that I've I've stood in
the trenches with and and we've done
store grand openings with and we've
we've worked hard together and yeah, it
was work and yeah, I was paid and and
they were paid and everything, right?
But I'd like to think that it's a little
deeper than just an exchange of money,
goods and services, right? And so, yeah,
I I agree that that was a betrayal of of
trust to not talk about it with them.
Say, "Hey, before you tried to poach
like to bring him with me
>> because my intention
>> from the start was to bring him with me
as as our shooter editor and and and
business partner
>> cuz you real you needed a staff like to
go independent
>> and I wanted him I wanted him to be the
one he was there from day zero.
>> Yeah.
>> And um
>> not realizing that could hurt like NCX
the company that you were leaving with
their
>> Oh, I knew it would hurt them. He was
very important there by that time. He
was not just a graphic designer. he was
pretty senior in the leadership team as
well. And so I I should have known
better. I should have I should have
talked through it. Um I I should have
given that them that opportunity to at
least consider the entire scope of what
they were agreeing to.
>> So when he found out he wanted to
completely cancel the deal
>> and owner did.
>> Yeah.
>> And basically what happened then was I
was there I was still working there.
Things are a little tense as you can
imagine. I don't have a signed deal for
the ownership of the Linus Tech Tips
channel,
>> but I'm still plugging away day-to-day
on the PC systems and product
management, training my replacements,
uh, uploading YouTube videos, trying to,
you know, move forward in good faith.
And he basically comes to me and he
says, "Okay, new deal. He doesn't go
with you. And number two is I want
equity."
And I kind of went, okay, I'm not giving
tag along equity to someone who knows
absolutely nothing about this business.
I don't think that that makes sense. I
wanted to bootstrap it because I wanted
to have the control to never have
someone tell me again, you know, you
have to sell. It can't be about the
education. You have to do this. You have
to do that. The whole point was that I
wanted to build a team the way that I
wanted to do it. And I wanted to build a
company the way that I wanted to do it.
And so I ultimately, you know, I talked
to the cameraman. He's like, "Yeah, I
mean, my job here is realistically not
that bad, and this isn't going to be a
guarantee anyway. So, um, you do what
you got to do, and and I respect him a
lot for that, um, for making it possible
for us to even come back to the
negotiating table." But I said, "No
equity."
So, okay, new deal, but no equity. And
it wasn't until literally December 31st
with the incorporation of Linus Media
Group being January 1 of the following
year. Uh December 31st, he was actually
in China and I was like, "Hey, we still
don't have a deal. My payroll starts
tomorrow. Do I have a channel or not
because I'm not coming to work?"
>> You're like talking to the owner.
>> Yeah.
>> And I I was hard to get in touch with
him. He was like, "I'm overseas. I don't
want to talk about this right now." I'm
like, "Dude, we've had four months to
talk about this. Are we doing this or
not?
and he says yes. And so it like came
down to the line with my team too having
no idea how I'm going to pay them. Like
they walked away, one walked away from
school and the other walked away from
well school and potential job
opportunities to come and do this with
me. [laughter] It was the whole thing
was crazy. We didn't even have a channel
yet.
So that was probably one of the most
tense moments in my life, right? Because
I remember walking around in the family
room at my old house pacing pacing on
the phone like will he won't he will he
won't he. And I'd had conversations with
with the the team members like do you
guys think we can do this if we have to
start a channel fresh? I don't know.
Turns out we wouldn't have been able to
because we almost ran out of money even
as it was even with an established
channel.
>> Wait, so you were going to start your
own YouTube channel regardless of
>> that's what they had signed up for? the
the the the the two employees that you
>> I told them we'd try.
>> So what so wow you were ready to go like
you were gonna start like another
channel. Did you have a name if it
wasn't going to be Lion Tech Tips?
>> No, because we were counting on getting
the deal done.
>> The deal.
>> Yeah.
>> But if you didn't get the deal done, you
would have started a YouTube channel,
had those two employees with you, um but
been starting with zero subscribers as
opposed to the 100red or 200,000 you had
at that point.
>> That was the plan. And I I don't think
we would have made it. What what what
gave you that conviction line is to go
like all in even if you didn't acquire
>> the team choice did I have
>> they walked away from other
opportunities to to do this
>> and you had already promised them
salaries and jobs.
>> Yeah.
>> So that that's fascinating. On day one
of you being an independent creator, you
already had two hires.
>> Yeah.
>> Which is actually very different than
most creators who have like
>> they're going to go on their own solo.
>> Oh yeah. until they make enough money.
Um, like what gave you the clarity to
hire two people on day one? Because I I
actually did the same thing like when I
worked at Instagram and YouTube, I built
up enough savings. I was like, I'm going
into this as as as a business and made
my first hire shortly after like leaving
my day job to just grow and scale. But I
find it's surprising that very few
creators do that. You know, savings is
obviously a big component. But what gave
you the clarity to do that? How much
money did you get have like saved up?
Because obviously YouTube back then,
what year was that? uh 2012 I want to
say.
>> Okay. Like
even Wilder West than it is now.
>> Oh yeah.
>> Um how much savings, if I could ask, did
you have at this time to be able to hire
two people on day one?
>> Got to be honest with you, I don't know,
but I doubt it was more than like 10
grand.
>> Wow.
>> Like we had regular income coming in
from Ivon's like maternity leave check.
>> Your your wife?
>> Yeah. Sorry.
>> And but like Yeah. I mean I was just I
was just working a job at a computer
store. Like I had a I had an infant
child. I I didn't have a ton of money.
>> Oh my god. So So you're a new dad.
$10,000 is
>> I'm guessing all you have in the bank,
>> but there's no way it was a ton.
>> It was not No, it was a ton. And then
you have two employees on day one.
>> Yeah. Maybe I had maybe it was 15 or 20.
I don't know. It wasn't a lot though.
>> Like it's not an amount that I remember.
I'll tell you that much.
>> Did you get to a point in those early
days of Lionus Tech Tips like you as an
independent creator now where you're
like, "Oh my god, this is going to end."
>> Of course, every day. I mean, what do
you think animated me to get up in the
morning and do, like I said, over 30
videos in a week? That's insane.
Remember, there's travel. Like, I was
doing this at CES. So, I was moving from
place to place. I would like I would
arrive at the booth and be, "Okay, what
do you got?
Got it. Thank you. So, we're here at the
booth and and we're doing this and uh
here's everything about it and uh and
then I'd hand it back to them and I'd
leave and they'd go, "How did you do
that?" I'd go, "Because I have to.
because I don't have time to to not be
able to do that necessity. We had to
survive.
>> What are some of those other big swings
that you took in those early days that
helped you make it,
>> man?
>> Cuz there's another version of the story
where you just go broke.
>> Oh, yeah. Oh, 100%. Um, we were pretty
slow and steady, but there was there was
one crazy existential
dread moment. Um, so we started out in
my garage. Yeah.
>> And that was fine because that cost
nothing, right? You just park your car
in the driveway. No biggie. Then we
actually bought a house to use as a
studio. So it turns out the city don't
take kindly to using a residential
property as a filming studio. And once
we reached the point where we had, I
think, 10 employees, the complaints
started rolling in. We actually had a
group of neighbors come to our door. We
know what you're doing in here. And
we're like, I mean, yeah, we weren't
really hiding it, but sure. Uh, you
know, we've complained. And city sent
out an inspector. And the inspector was
super nice. They basically went, "Okay,
look, I'm not going to come in there
because like I'm not a cop. I don't have
a search warrant. You don't have to let
me in there, but what I am going to do
is I'm going to give you notice that I
am going to come back and next time I'm
going to come in there and there better
not be a business in there." I kind of
went, "Okay, I need a little more time
>> before you come back, but we're making
good faith efforts to move." We had put
a down payment on a studio. So, it was
the plate was about 6,000 square feet
and then we were building a tenant
improvement in it that was going to be
about gonna add about another 1500 ft²
or so. So, about 7,500 ft. Pretty big.
Yeah.
>> Was a million dollars, right? And so,
the down payment on that was like 200 or
300,000 or something like that. It was
hard for us to get financing. Yeah.
Because nobody took our business
seriously back then. Like I couldn't
even get a credit card for the business
for two years. I couldn't get a credit
card. I just had to use my personal
credit card and then I had to like
reimburse. That made the accounting way
more complicated for no reason other
than that creator was not a job title.
So on top of the down payment, so we had
to like build offices and sets. And so
that was another like $150,000. Like it
was it was a lot of money. A lot of
money for us, especially at the time.
>> And that's where Vessel came in. Do you
remember Vessel? Yeah.
>> Yeah. So people subscribe to Vessel for
$3 a month if I recall correctly and
then it's early access to all your
favorite channels on vessel.com and then
the same uploads go to YouTube a week
later. That was their model.
>> Yeah.
>> And I had said no. I'd said, "Yeah,
forget it. I'm I'm you you know, you cut
me open, I bleed red." No, but like
YouTube red, you know, not just [snorts]
blood. Um you know, I was I was like I
YouTube has gotten me to where I' where
I've gotten and I I'm a firm believer in
riding the horse that got you to where
you've gotten. But they were offering
huge signing bonuses.
>> Like what?
>> Um tens of thousands of dollars, which
was a lot of money for us.
>> And then Vessel came knocking one more
time and I went,
>> "Yes, yes. I I need the money because
otherwise, how am I going to build the
tenant improvement in this space? I
don't have the money for it." Because we
had signed the deal for the real studio.
We were working out of the house. We
were going to get kicked out of the
house.
>> So I was I was stuck in this house that
I was not allowed to work in. I had a
studio space that was just a big empty
warehouse that I couldn't afford to
build sets in.
>> I had to take the vessel money.
>> Yeah.
>> So, that was a wild time, man. I don't
know if I had ever worked that hard in
my life or if I've ever worked that hard
again
>> in my life. Just to close here, I'm just
curious like where this goes from here
because I think you have a unique
perspective, especially as AI becomes a
bigger deal like you know, Sora recently
launching. Yeah. Like that that is a
wild like I I I feel like a step change
and like Yeah. I hate to use the dword,
but disruptive. Yeah. You know,
>> for once.
>> Yeah.
>> Where do you see as as like a tech
expert like this all going this changing
your creative process and flow, this
changing YouTube? Like I I wanted to ask
you because you have a unique
perspective on this.
>> At the end of the day, none of those
things matter. What matters is how it's
going to change viewer and consumer
behavior. And then from there we can
derive how to engage with that. I would
like to believe in much the same way
that our product development philosophy
is, you know, don't save 10 cents if 15
cents will last twice as long. You know,
I came from the made in China generation
of kids where all of my toys broke in 10
minutes, right? And so, you know, when
we were developing our products, I went,
"No, I want to make stuff that's not
like that. I want to make stuff that
actually lasts." And I I I don't think
I'm the only one I don't think I'm the
only one my age that goes, "Yeah, yeah,
you know, water guns used to actually
last for multiple seasons instead of
just immediately leaking right out of
the box." What What the heck happened
with that? And in the same way, what I'm
hoping is that as quality decays like
crazy on online content, we're going to
reach that point where people who grew
up with that go, well, this is garbage.
I want something that's more bespoke. I
want something that's humaned.
>> And we are obviously, you know, aware of
generative AI. We are obviously looking
at ways that it can or can't integrate
with our workflows. You know, we don't
want to completely miss the train, but
I don't personally believe that an AI
can ever be a substitute for a real
human opinion. Because, you know, let's
take let's take my controversial take on
the AirPods Pro 3s recently. An AI can
never put them in its ears. It can never
know how they feel. It can never
struggle to take off the ear tip. It can
never
it can never feel.
>> And so I think I hope that in time
everything is going to decay to the
point where there's going to be a
snapback and we're going to go, "No,
what I want is human validated testing
of the things I buy rather than some AI
recommending some thing that it has
literally never touched because it
literally isn't a physical entity."
But I mean that's specific to your
industry.
>> Yes. In terms of YouTube, I do I do I do
worry about some verticals that are more
um pure entertainment.
>> Yeah.
>> Um you know, just like I I was very
stressed for the Hollywood Writers Guild
when they were on their most recent
strike, right? where they're trying to
push back against AI and they're trying
to, you know, make all these demands. At
a time when, you know, on the studio
side, they're looking at it going, "Oh,
you guys are like more replaceable than
ever." Um, and at a time when it feels
like, man, like a lot of the stuff that
I fire up on Netflix, it's just like,
yeah, an AI, maybe this was written by a
human, but I wouldn't be able to tell.
like this intersection of cost cutting
on the studio side to um cost like
earnings expectations on the writing
side to just slack jawed slash second
screen attention span on the audience
side is not good. I'm glad they got a
deal done. Uh but I it was it was it was
funny. I saw the justification for what
was it a one-year deal, two-year deal,
can't remember what it was, but the
justification from the writer side was
we wanted a short deal because we wanted
to see what loopholes they'd find to
like work AI in in ways that we couldn't
have expected. But I'm looking at it
going, I bet they were happy to sign a
short-term deal with you because it
gives them two more years for the stuff
to get better and for your negotiating
position to deteriorate further. I I uh
I'm not like an AI bull, you know? I'm
not invested in any AI companies. I'm
not sitting here going, "Yeah, AI is
going to replace everything." But I also
think that to imagine that it isn't
going to have a significant impact on
certain industries, is just
naive at this point in time. So the pure
entertainment,
if you make something that people are
generally content to have on on a second
screen or not like really be paying
attention to, I would be deeply worried
right now.
>> That's an interesting distinction.
That's what's at risk versus Yeah.
>> I don't think the human connection Well,
I shouldn't even say that. I I mean,
you've got your full on AI influencers,
but you know, even that I kind of look
at it and I go like, what's the
difference between an AI influencer and
a team of people behind a real person in
terms of like it's still being humaned
in a sense? like yeah there's a
difference but um the way that some
people in particular you know craft a
persona for a real human you know meat
sack right [snorts] and have a team
behind it you know like the
>> the way that we would derisively talk
about certain music artists back in the
90s or the early 2000s you're a product
you know
>> um Eminem disc right there right nothing
but a product um you know it doesn't
seem that different from these AI
influencers
>> because it really just seems the words
that like people have written for them
or labels or like companies like Yeah.
>> Yeah. So, it's a familiar model.
>> Yeah. Interesting.
>> Right. Um
>> but you're right, it's all forms of
entertainment versus like maybe more
education or like giving an opinion
requires a bit of trust and you know
>> anything with a real human connection uh
I think will survive for longer. But
even that, you know, you look at the
kinds of relationships, and I I use that
word uh that is a that's one kind of R
word for sure.
>> Um
relationships with AIS, and I kind of
go, yeah, maybe not even personalities
are safe.
>> Yeah.
>> Wow.
>> I'm sorry to be a bit of a downer on
this, but I I mean, I'm up close and
personal with it all the time, and it
really is getting better all the time,
and I just
Hopefully, we're so deep into this video
that most people aren't watching it
anymore. Um, [snorts]
>> but most consumers are quite frankly not
very discerning.
>> Yeah.
>> And the only proof you need of that is
the back when we used to have a like
dislike ratio on YouTube. You know, you
look at the like dislike ratio on some
of the most just totally unbelievable
apology videos. It's like
>> that ain't even good acting, bro.
[snorts] you know, and you'll have, you
know, twothirds of the community
rallying around this like crocodile
tears like fake ass apology and you look
at it and you just kind of go like you
realize it's a decision to cry on
camera, right?
>> You could do another take where
>> you're not crying. Live stream, that's
one thing. Yeah, you might like break
down on a live stream,
>> but when you record a take, put it on a
timeline,
cut it up, and export it, you made a
decision to be crying, right? Um, and
so, [clears throat] you know, I think
that's something that just people are
just they ain't that savvy
>> viewers.
>> Yeah.
>> Interesting.
>> Like whereas I look at something, I go,
everything that's in a video is there on
purpose.
Yeah, I don't buy it, you know.
>> Yeah. Well, line is I I I feel like if
anybody's going to navigate like, you
know, the next five years and whatever
it holds, like I'm I'm I'm fascinated to
see how you're going to do it, how
you're going to build a company.
>> Do our best.
>> Well, dude, I appreciate you just
walking through like Yeah. showing us
like so much of the insight of how you
built your channel and business and
yeah, those scary early days and uh man,
yeah, I appreciate you coming on the
show.
>> Appreciate you for having me on. Thank
you very much.
>> Amazing. Thank you. All right.